## Infrastructure-as-Code Experiment

### Question topic
As a developer who is learning about cloud offerings, does using Chat-GPT and/or other AI tooling improve my understanding and/or efficiency by helping to generate cloud template files i.e., infrastructure-as-code (IaC)? To test the hypothesis, I will ask Chat-GPT model gpt-4 to assist with Udemy coursework labs as I try to learn about networking in Azure.

### Intended outcomes
How useful are AI tools when learning to create infrastructure? Given the complexity of options when generating IaC (for example, required and non-required parameters, template syntax, template formats, the relationships between infra resources etc.), we can use Udemy or Pluralsite courses that provide tutorials and IaC templates to measure the accuracy of the output. 

Starting with a Chat-GPT-generated template should move the starting line of learning forward and break the curse of the blank page, even if there are mistakes in the generated code. 


### Learning Labs/Tasks
- Setting up a network in Azure: [Network setup prompt](azure-networks/basic-network.md)

- Translating the above network setup result from Bicep to Terraform [Translate to Terraform](azure-networks/translate-to-tf.md)

- Creating a virtual machine in Azure: [VM creation prompt](azure-vms/basic-vm.md)

### Results

While Chat-GPT serves various purposes, using it as a learning tool for infrastructure as code (IaC) may not be optimal. The templates generated by Chat-GPT might require some modifications, necessitating learners to refer back to the documentation to address these inconsistencies. While this could enhance the learning experience for some, others might find it creates unnecessary hurdles.

It's also noted that there could be a feeling of resistance towards using Chat-GPT due to the potential inaccuracies encountered. For learners at certain stages, a more straightforward approach might be preferred to more efficiently grasp new concepts. These individuals might perceive the learning process to be hindered by spending time addressing errors.

Additionally, as learners naturally encounter and overcome their own mistakes during the learning process, some may find it unnecessary to employ a language learning model that could introduce additional errors.

In the process of learning, a student may not always be aware of their knowledge gaps. Someone skilled in writing IaC templates can probably spot things to improve in the examples, even though the templates are able to be deployed. This kind of skill does not come easily, it builds over time through varied scenarios. Chat-GPT would be a more effective learning tool if it could provide more accurate templates and explanations of parameters and their uses in terms a learner could understand.  


Chat-GPT was beneficial when translating one template format to another. To go from Bicep to Terraform format, the template ran without any issues on the first try. If you think of a scenario where a client has made an investment in AWS, and has a library of CloudFormation templates, a consultant could write templates in Terraform and convert it for delivery. 